.\" Manpage for alvara.
.\" Contact marc.weidler@web.de to correct errors or typos.
.TH alvara 1 "13 Jan 2012" "1.0" "alvara man page"

.SH NAME
alvara \- file integrity verification
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B alvara
.I options
.I file-or-path
.I [file-or-path]
.B ...

.SH DESCRIPTION
alvara is a command-line based file integrity verification tool.
It collects meta-information of files and directories and stores
them in a reference file for later comparison.

The following information are stored:
 \- existence
 \- file content checksum (SHA1 message digest, 160-bit/FIPS-180-1 compliant)
 \- file size
 \- access flags
 \- modification time


With these information, the tool is able to verify, if a previous
investigated file or directory has been modified or altered.

.SH USE CASES
.TP
a) Backup verification
   The main purpose of alvara is to verify a successful copy or backup
   of data and ensure, that they are still valid and fully readable.

.TP
b) Detect system modification
   It is also possible to detect system file modifications.
   But maybe there are better and specialized tools like
   tripwire and integrit.

.SH OPTIONS
options start at least with one '-' and can be
.TP
.B --create, c or c
 Create a new reference file with reference information of the given files or directories.
.TP
.B --verify, -v or v
 Verify the given files or directories against previously created reference information.
.TP
.B --file=REFERENCE, -f or f
 Read or write reference information using file REFERENCE.
.TP
.B --exclude=PATTERN, -e or e
 Gives you a way to avoid processing files/directories, if they match the PATTERN.
 The whole relative file path is compared against PATTERN.
.TP
.B --ignore=IGNORE, -i or i
 Ignore differences of content.
 You can IGNORE one or multiple of: (c)ontent,(s)ize,(t)ime,(f)lags,(d)eletion,(a)dded.
 Use long (e.g. 'content') or short form (e.g. 'c'), separated with or without comma.
.TP
.B --quiet, -q or q
 Be quiet. Print only detected differences.
.TP
.B --progress, -p or p
 Show progress and print as many information as possible.
.TP
.B --version
 Print version info and exit.
.TP
.B --help, -h or h
 Prints the synopsis and a list of options and exists.
.TP
.B --usage, -u or u
 Same as '--help'.
.TP
.BI file-or-path
a file or directory to be investigated.

.SH RETURN VALUES
Return values are
  0  no differences were detected
  1  content, size, time or flags have been changed
  2  files were deleted
  4  files were added
 16  error occured
  
.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
a) Create reference file 'reference' with contents of directory '/media/data' and '/media/music':
 $ alvara -cf ~/reference /media/data /media/music
.TP
b) Verify the above created reference against the current content, but ignore file's timestamp:
 $ alvara --verify --file=~/reference --ignore=time /media/data /media/music
.TP
c) Create reference of home directory, but exclude '.ssh' and '.dbus' directories:
 $ alvara --create --file=/data/ref --exclude='.ssh' --exclude=.dbus ~
.TP
d) Verify backup
 $ alvara create ~/reference.alv .
 $ cp -ra . /media/mybackup
 $ alvara validate ~/reference.alv /media/mybackup

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR sha1sum(1)

.SH BUGS
No known bugs.

.SH AUTHOR
Written by Marc Weidler (marc.weidler@web.de)
